---
layout: post
title: Nicolas Morales-Gaurav Khanna - The IT Boom and other Unintended Consequences of the American Dream (August 19)
---
## August 19 - Nicolas Morales-Gaurav Khanna

*Location:* Lorch 301

We use a general equilibrium model to study how the US internet boom and concurrent immigration policies led to a tech boom in India. Specically, we test the hypothesis that Indian students enrolled in engineering schools to gain employment in the rapidly growing US IT industry via the H-1B visa program. Those who could not join the US workforce remained in India, enabling the growth of an IT sector. Those who returned with acquired human capital and technology after the expiration of their H-1Bs, also contributed to the growing tech-workforce in India. The increase in IT sector productivity allowed India to eventually surpass the US in IT exports. The paper develops a general quilibrium
model of firm-hiring, and of worker decisions to study and choose occupations in both the US and India supported by a rich descriptive analysis of the changes in the 1990s and early 2000s. We calibrate this model and perform counterfactual exercises to study the impact of immigration policies on the growth of these sectors in both countries. We find that the H-1B program induced Indians to switch to computer science (CS) occupations, increasing the non-migrant CS workforce in India by 4.9% in 2010. It also induced US workers to switch to non-CS occupations, reducing the US native CS workforce by 7%. Indian IT output is higher by 1.8%, India's share in world IT production greater by 8.9%, and the combined income of both countries is higher by 1.5% under the H-1B program

